---
Title : August 19, 2015
class="note warning note_warning">
<b>Warning:</b> Due to issues with our recent
release, we have performed an emergency rollback to version 1.15 of the
ms.date : 10/28/2023
---


# August 19, 2015





class="note warning note_warning">

<b>Warning:</b> Due to issues with our recent
release, we have performed an emergency rollback to version 1.15 of the
Impression Bus API. As a result, the default `https://api.adnx.com` and
`https://api.adnxs.com/current` endpoints currently point to version
1.15.

We will rollout version 1.16 again on September 28, 2015. In the
meantime, clients who want to use version 1.16 can point to it in their
calls, e.g., `https://api.adnxs.com/v1.16/creative`. Clients who still
need to adjust to the breaking changes in version 1.16 can find
information about required changes in our
<a href="https://docs.xandr.com/csh?context=70355722" class="xref"
target="_blank">June 16, 2015</a> release notes.





We are pleased to announce the following enhancements to version 1.16 of
the AppNexus ImpBus API.



## End of Breaking Change Period

This release includes the breaking changes that were announced in our <a
href="june-16--2015.md"
class="xref" target="_blank">June 2015</a> release notes. It is the end
of the 60-day period during which we continue to support the earlier
version of the API, as stated in our <a
href="breaking-changes.md"
class="xref" target="_blank">Breaking Changes</a> policy. The
`https://api.``adnxs``.com` endpoint now points
to version 1.16 .





## Retrieving Report Data

When you request a report via the <a
href="report-service.md"
class="xref" target="_blank">Report Service</a>, we first return a
Report ID. You then make a `GET` call with that Report ID to check the
status of the report. In the past, if the report was ready, the response
to this `GET` call would include the report data. Going forward,
however, you must make a subsequent `GET` call with the Report ID to
the `report-download` service to retrieve the report data. For
step-by-step instructions, see <a
href="report-service.md"
class="xref" target="_blank">How to Retrieve a Report</a>.






