---
Title : June 16, 2015
Description : We are pleased to announce the following enhancements to version 1.16 of
---


# June 16, 2015



We are pleased to announce the following enhancements to version 1.16 of
the AppNexus ImpBus API.



Warning: In addition to new features,
this release includes breaking changes. We will therefore support two
versions of the API for the next 60 days, as stated in our <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/breaking-changes.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Breaking Changes</a> policy.

**Version 1.15**: This version **does not** include breaking changes.
The `https://api.``adnxs``.com` endpoint will
continue to point to version 1.15 for 60 days. After that time, this
endpoint will point to version 1.16.

**Version 1.16**: This version **does** include breaking changes and new
features. For the next 60 days, to use this version, you must point
directly to it in your calls, e.g.,
`https://api.``adnxs``.com/v1.16`.



<div id="ID-0000cd49__section_qz3_wfs_4wb" >

## Breaking Changes

All of the changes described in this section are only present in version
1.16.

**One Supported SSL Endpoint**

As of the 1.16 release, the only supported endpoint for ImpBus API users
will be the (SSL-enabled)
`https://api.``adnxs``.com`. Non-secure HTTP
endpoints will no longer be supported. Other URLs will no longer be
supported.

**Stricter JSON Type Checking**

Version 1.16 will continue to automatically convert (cast) "integerish"
strings to integers. For example, `"123"` will still be converted to
`123`.

However, beginning with version 1.16, the API will no longer warn when
automatically converting a "non-integer" string such as `"foo"` to `0`
when such a string is passed into a field expecting an integer. Instead,
it will throw an error and the call will fail.

**Changed Error Messages**

The following error messages are changing:

- Anywhere the message `"Error occured while processing your request"`
  appears, it's being changed to fix the misspelling in "occurred". The
  new message will be `"Error occurred while processing your request"`.
- If a database transaction fails, the error message is currently
  `"SYSTEM::updating`". These messages have been changed to provide more
  detail, depending on the type of error. The new messages are:
  - `SYSTEM::DEADLOCK_MAX_ATTEMPTS::A database error occurred. Please try your request again.`
  - `SYSTEM::DB_UNKNOWN::A database error occurred. Please try your request again.`

**Changed Services**

**Creative Service**

The following changes are being made to the <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/creative-service.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Creative Service</a>:

- The `thirdparty_page_id` field is now inside the `thirdparty_page`
  object in both the request and the response.
- A template is now required for every creative. Creatives configured
  using the previously-deprecated `format` and `media_subtype` elements
  will no longer function. A non-null `id` is now required in the
  `template`object for any PUT or POST.

**Bidder Profile Service**

The following changes are being made to the <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/legacy-bidder-profile-service.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Legacy Bidder Profile Service</a>.

**Removed Fields**

The following fields are being removed:

- `inventory_source_targets`

**Targeting Region, Country, and City will be by ID**

We are changing region, country, and city-based targeting to target by
ID. The following fields are being updated.

**Country Targets**

The `country_targets` field will be passed in using IDs as follows:

``` pre
"country_targets": [
    {
        "id": 1 // id of US
    },
    {
        "id": 2 // id of AS
    }
]
```

Furthermore, the contents of this field in response to a `GET` call will
become:

``` pre
"country_targets": [
        {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "United States",
          "code": "US"
        }
      ]
```

To see a list of all of the countries available for targeting, make a
`GET` request to
`https://api.``adnxs``.com/country/meta`.

**Region Targets**

The `region_targets` field will be passed in using IDs as follows:

``` pre
"region_targets": [
    {
        "id": 1 // ID of NJ region in US
    },
    {
        "id": 2 // ID of NY region in US
    }
]
```

Furthermore, the contents of this field in response to a `GET` call will
become:

``` pre
"region_targets": [
       {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "New York",
          "code": "NY",
          "country_name": "United States",
          "country_code": "US"
        }
      ]
```

For a list of the supported regions, you can check the Region Service
meta by making a `GET` request to
`https://api.``adnxs``.com/region/meta`.

**City Targets**

The `city_targets` field will change slightly to the following
(`"region_id"`, an integer, is being replaced by `"region_code"`, a
string):

``` pre
"city_targets": [
       {
          "id": 123,
          "name": "Queens",
          "region_name": "New York",
          "region_code": "NY",
          "country_name": "United States",
          "country_code": "US"
        }
      ]
```

To search the City Service for cities that you are interested in
targeting, call the service using a name (or part of a name) as shown
below. This example will find cities with the string `"New"` in their
names.

`curl -bc https://api.``adnxs``.com/city?like_city=New`

**Third-Party Page Access Service**

**Changed Field Type**

In the Third-Party Page Access Service, the type of the 
`thirdparty_page_id`  field is changing from string to integer. This is
necessary because Facebook only accepts numeric values in this field.

**Reporting Service**

**New method for retrieving reports**

The method for retrieving a report from the <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/report-service.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Report Service</a> is changing. Beginning
with the 1.16 release, the workflow will change to be the same as used
by the Console API. Specifically, the steps will be:

1.  Create a report by `POST`ing JSON to the <a
    href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/report-service.html"
    class="xref" target="_blank">Report Service</a>. This returns a
    report ID.
2.  Check the status of your report by making a `GET` request to the
    service using the report ID you received in Step 1.
3.  When the `"execution_status"` of the request from Step 2 is
    `"ready"`, the URL for downloading the report will be in the `"url"`
    field.
4.  Finally, you'll make a `GET` call to the **Report Download Service**
    using the contents of the `"url"` field to retrieve the report data.

**Report Download Service**

The `report-download` service now returns more consistent and accurate
headers in its responses. For these responses, no JSON is returned. The
possible return values are:

- 200: OK.
- 202: Report request accepted and still pending for processing.
- 404: The report ID was not provided.
- 405: Unsupported method was requested (POST, PUT, DELETE).
- 410: Purged; report has been deleted.
- 500: Internal Error. The reporting API returned a malformed response,
  could not report data, or any other uncaught exceptions.

**Removed Service**

The
<a href="june-16--2015.html#ID-0000cd49" class="xref">June 16, 2015</a>
is being removed.

**Bidding Protocol Changes**

We are updating our <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/bid-request.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Bid Request</a> to remove the following
fields:

- `inventory_class`
- `inventory_source_id`



<div id="ID-0000cd49__section_v3y_jks_4wb" >

## Non-Breaking Changes

The changes in this section apply to version 1.15 of the API.

**New Services**

**Deal From Package Service**

**New service**

The <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-bidders/page/deal-from-package-service.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Deal From Package Service</a> allows buyers
to create a deal from an existing package.






