---
title: Microsoft Invest - Create a Click Tracker
description: Learn how to create and export a click tracker for use with creatives served by an external ad server. 
ms.date: 10/28/2023
---


# Microsoft Invest - Create a click tracker 

Click trackers are used to track user clicks on creatives served by
off-platform (non-Microsoft Advertising) ad servers.

This document describes how to create and export a click tracker for use
with creatives served by an external ad server. Most ad servers allow
you to attach a "piggyback pixel" to a creative when you upload it. The
click tracker is meant to be uploaded as a piggyback pixel so that when
that creative is clicked, the click tracker will load as well and let
Microsoft Advertising know that a click took place. You can
report on these clicks using the [Clicktrackers Feed](../digital-platform-api/clicktrackers-feed.md).

## Step 1. Create a click tracker

Navigate to the **Click Trackers**
screen (**Creative\>  Click Trackers**) and click
the **Create Click Tracker** button.

The **Create new Click Tracker** dialog will appear. In the
**Click Tracker Details** section, enter
the name of the click tracker. You can click
**Advanced Options** if you'd like to
assign your own custom **Code** and **Landing Page URL** to this click
tracker.

## Step 2. Associate with a line item (required)

Click trackers are associated with line items. In the
**Line Item Association** section, click
**Edit** to choose the line item you'd
like to associate this click tracker with. You can also search for a
line item by name.


> [!IMPORTANT]
> Once a line item is associated with a click tracker, you can report on the clicks coming through that tracker at the line item level. You can separate impression and click trackers by grouping by **Impression Type** in [Member Reporting](network-reporting.md).

## Step 3. Associate with a publisher (required)

Under **Publisher Settings**, click
**Edit** and choose the publisher you'd
like to associate this click tracker with.

## Step 4. Associate with a placement (optional)

You can optionally associate your click tracker with a placement. This
allows you to do performance reporting on the clicks coming through this
placement.

## Step 5. Associate with a payment rule (optional)

Because you are required to associate your click tracker with a
publisher, you can optionally associate it with a payment rule as well.

## Step 6. Export the click tracker

Finally, export the click tracker by clicking the checkbox to its left, and selecting **More Actions \>  Export Tags** from
the menu to the right of the Create **Click Tracker button**.

The **Export Trackers** dialog will appear. Under **Basic Options**, you
can choose to export a JavaScript tag or a secure pixel.

Under **Delivery Options**, you can choose to generate the tags now, or
have them sent to you in an email.

The **Advanced Options** section presents
several different macros that you can use to populate your click
tracker. For more information about these macros, see [Creative Macros](creative-macros.md).

## Step 7. Add macro parameters (optional)

The exported click tracker will look something like the following (this
tracker includes the macros `CACHEBUSTER`, `ANCOST` and `REDIRECT_URL`
from the **Advanced Options** section of
the export dialog shown above).

``` pre
<!-- Click Tracker - CLIK TRAX -->
<a href="http://ib.adnxs.com/clktrb?id=21378&cachebuster=[CACHEBUSTER]&ancost=[ANCOST]&redir=[REDIRECT_URL]">YOUR TEXT HERE</a>
<!-- End of Click Tracker -->
```

The table below lists the parameters you can add to the click tracker
and their definitions.

| Parameter | Description |
|:---|:---|
| `cachebuster` | Cachebusters ensure that the user's browser does not cache the URL. It should be dynamically generated by the ad server from which the click originates. |
| `ancost` | Passes Microsoft Advertising the media cost. This should be populated with what you paid for a click in the original system.<br>**Note**: This will override any payment rules. |
| `redir` | The URL you'd like the creative to redirect to, which must be non-encoded and fully functional. This will supersede any redirect value entered into Invest DSP.<br>**Note**: This parameter must be placed at the end of the query string. If it's anywhere else in the query string, the redirect will not be successful. |

## Related topics

- [Clicktrackers Feed](../digital-platform-api/clicktrackers-feed.md)
