---
Title : Impression Funnel: Seller Deals
Description : Note: This functionality currently is
in Open Beta. It is still under development and may be subject to change
---


# Impression Funnel: Seller Deals





Note: This functionality currently is
in Open Beta. It is still under development and may be subject to change
without notice. Contact your Xandr Account Representative to get
enabled.





The Impression Funnel panel on the
Troubleshooting tab enables you to
view the metrics of a curated deal as a whole and assess its overall
performance.

The Impression Funnel: Seller
Deals panel contains a table that allows you to see the curated
deal’s impression funnel and metrics broken out for each seller deal, it
sources inventory from. The panel will appear if the curated deal's
Supply Stratergy is configured to
source inventory from seller deals.



If you frequently source inventory from seller deals, this table enables
you to effectively troubleshoot and resolve issues. For example, if your
curated deal is experiencing low delivery, you can use the table to
check a few possible causes:

- **Seller deals with the lowest imps matched**: To check if the deals
  are contributing to fewer matched imps than you would expect.
- **Seller deals with the lowest bid rates**: To check if the buyer's
  targeting is restricting the seller deals on which they bid.
- **Seller deals with the lowest win rates**: To check if an issue is
  preventing the buyer from winning impressions effectively through a
  seller deal.







## Impression Funnel: Seller Deals

Time

You can select Last Hour,
Last 24 Hours, and
Last 7 Days from the
Time Period drop-down menu. This
allows you to see metrics over different periods and how they've changed
during that period.

**Columns**



The Impression Funnel: Seller
Deals table includes the following columns:

- **Deal**: The name and ID of the seller deal contributing to this
  curated deal.
- **Seller Member**: The name and ID of the member who owns the seller
  deal.
- **Revenue**: The seller revenue in USD this curated deal has generated
  for the seller deal.
- **Imps Matched**: The number of imps matched generated by this curated
  deal as a result of the specific seller deal.
- **Bid Requests**: The number of bid requests generated by this curated
  deal as a result of the specific seller deal.
- **Bids**: The number of bids received by this curated deal for a bid
  request that was generated as a result of the specific seller deal.
- **Wins**: The number of bids submitted against this curated deal that
  have won an auction for the specific seller deal.
- **Renders**: The number of times a creative has appeared after winning
  an auction for the specific seller deal.
- **Ineligible Bids**: The number of ineligible bids received by this
  curated deal for a bid request that was generated as a result of the
  specific seller deal.



Values

The Impression Funnel: Seller
Deals columns can include up to three different kinds of values.

You can hover over a column header and click the
ellipsies button. From the
Sort pop-up window you can choose
the appropriate values to sort the columns.

<table id="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb"
class="table frame-all" style="width:100%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 33%" />
<col style="width: 32%" />
<col style="width: 33%" />
</colgroup>
<thead class="thead">
<tr class="header row">
<th id="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__1"
class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1">Type of value</th>
<th id="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__2"
class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1">Description</th>
<th id="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__3"
class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1">Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody class="tbody">
<tr class="odd row">
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__1">Impression
funnel change</td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__2"><p>This
is the top value in the cell and explains how this metric has changed
compared to the previous step in the funnel.</p>
This value is available for the metrics:
<ul>
<li>Bid Requests</li>
<li>Bids</li>
<li>Wins</li>
<li>Renders</li>
</ul></td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__3"><p>In
the <strong>Bid Requests</strong> column, this value describes bid
requests as a proportion of imps matched.</p>
<p>Click the <span
class="ph uicontrol">ellipsies &gt; <span
class="ph uicontrol">Bid Request Rate button to sort the
column by this value.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even row">
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__1">Amount</td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__2">This
is the middle value in the cell and explains the amount for this
metric.</td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__3">In
the <strong>Bid Requests</strong> column, this value describes the
number of bid requests.
<p>Click the <span
class="ph uicontrol">ellipsies &gt; <span
class="ph uicontrol">Bid Requestbutton to sort the column
by this value.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd row">
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__1">Relative
change as a percentage</td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__2"><p>This
is the bottom value in the cell and explains how this metric has changed
over time.</p>
<p>This value updates according to the selected time period.</p>
<p>The value appears in <strong>red</strong>, if the percentage chnage
is less than <strong>3%</strong> and <strong>green</strong>, if it is
greater than <strong>+3%</strong>.</p></td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__3"><p>In
the <strong>Bid Requests</strong> column when <span
class="ph uicontrol">Last Hour is selected, this value describes
the percentage change in the number of bid requests that occurred in the
last hour versus the preceding hour.</p>
<p>Click the <span
class="ph uicontrol">ellipsies &gt; <span
class="ph uicontrol">Relative Change button to sort the
column by this value.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even row">
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__1">Relative
change as an amount</td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__2"><p>This
is the bottom value in the cell and explains how this metrics has
changed over time.</p>
<p>This value updates according to the selected time period.</p></td>
<td class="entry colsep-1 rowsep-1"
headers="impression-funnel-seller-deals__table_p34_kzv_wxb__entry__3">In
the <strong>Bid Requests</strong> column when <span
class="ph uicontrol">Last Hour is selected, this value describes
change in the number of bid requests which occurred in the last hour
versus the preceding hour.
<p>Click the <span
class="ph uicontrol">ellipsies &gt; <span
class="ph uicontrol">Total Changebutton to sort the column
by this value.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>



Note: To download the data from the
table, you can navigate to the
Troubleshooting Reports panel.

- Click on the Troubleshooting
  Reports panel.
- From the Report Type field click
  on Deal Metrics Report and select
  Seller Deal from the
  Breakout Deal Metrics By field and
  clickRun Report to generate the
  report.
- Click on Export to CSV, to download
  the report in CSV format.







## Related Topics

- <a href="curate-impression-funnel.html" class="xref">Impression
  Funnel</a>






