---
title: TinyTags
description: This page provides an overview on the working of TinyTags. Learn about various sample tags through which TinyTags are called.
ms.date: 11/28/2023
---

# TinyTags

This page provides an overview of how TinyTags (tt) work. For more details, see the [TinyTag Service.](tinytag-service.md)

## Overview

A publisher creates a TinyTag ID via the TinyTag Service or with Xandr assistance. The TinyTag ID can either be used to create an ad tag which is placed on an inventory page, or simply stored server side and referenced during ad calls. The most basic form of a TinyTag is: `https://ib.adnexus.com/tt?id=123` where "123" is the TinyTag ID.

When an inventory page loads, the ad call pings Xandr's impression bus. If necessary, the impression bus references the server-side TinyTag ID. It then looks up any information associated with the tag, such as minimum acceptable reserve price and a reserve creative. The impression bus sends bidders the appropriate user and webpage information from the tag and asks for their bids in 1/20th of a second (50 ms).

One of four things then happens:

1. The advertiser with the highest bid wins the auction and their creative is returned to the webpage.  
1. The reserve price or some other criteria is not met, no one wins, and the default creative is returned.  
1. No one wins and the default creative daisy chains the ad call to a third-party adserver. The third party takes full control and the ad call does not return to Xandr.  
1. If the TinyTag uses the [Preemptive Tags](preemptive-tags.md) feature, the ad call passes to a third party. It may or may not return to Xandr.

## TinyTag ID

Each impression that runs through Xandr will be associated with an ID generated by the [TinyTag Service.](tinytag-service.md), the TinyTag ID, or with assistance from Xandr personnel. Each TinyTag ID is associated with a unique publisher and carries information such as:

- Reserve price
- Default creative
- Size
- Ad profile (for example, what creatives are not allowed)

This TinyTag information is stored server-side at Xandr; this means that once a tag is in place, you will never have to re-tag a publisher page again. You can modify the tag data server side.

The default creative is a "backup" if any parameters, such as the reserve price, were not met. It is important to note that the default creative can be a literal creative, say an in-house ad, OR it can be a redirect in the form or a third-party ad tag to third party adserver.

## Ad call dynamic parameters

Parameters can also be added to the TinyTag at the time of the ad call. See [Dynamic TinyTag Parameters](dynamic-tinytag-parameters.md) for details.

## Sample tags

### Tiny Tag called via iframe with a tt call

``` 
<iframe height="250" frameborder="0" width="300" scrolling="no" src="https://ib.adnxs.com/tt?id=1234" ></iframe>
```

### Tiny Tag called via Javascript (ttj) with a ttj call

```
<script src="https://ib.adnxs.com/ttj?id=1234"   type="text/javascript"></script>
```

### Tiny Tag called using codes via iframe

``` 
<iframe height="250" frameborder="0" width="300" scrolling="no" src="https://ib.adnxs.com/tt?member=1&inv_code=abcdef" ></iframe>
```

### Tiny Tag called using codes via Javascript

``` 
<script src="https://ib.adnxs.com/ttj?member=1&inv_code=abcdef"  type="text/javascript"></script>
```
## Related topics

- [TinyTag Service](tinytag-service.md)
- [Dynamic TinyTag Parameters](dynamic-tinytag-parameters.md)
- [Ad Profile Service](ad-profile-service.md)
