---
Title : Adaptive Pacing
Description : Manually managing the correct pace for a line item - determining how
much to spend per hour and day, and implementing that with budgets - is
error-prone, and can take an enormous amount of a trader's time. The
---


# Adaptive Pacing



Manually managing the correct pace for a line item - determining how
much to spend per hour and day, and implementing that with budgets - is
error-prone, and can take an enormous amount of a trader's time. The
first problem, determining how much to spend per day, is addressed by
<a href="lifetime-pacing.html" class="xref"
title="Lifetime pacing intelligently distributes a budget over the lifespan of a line item&#39;s flight.">lifetime
pacing</a>. The second problem, determining how much to spend per hour
and per minute within a day, is addressed by Adaptive Pacing.

How Adaptive Pacing Works

Adaptive pacing controls a line item's pacing and prevents overpaying.
Using the line item's daily budget (either generated by
Xandr automatically or manually entered by the
user), Xandr will calculate an ideal spend curve
so that advertiser dollars are distributed evenly throughout the day. A
dynamically calculated **bid multiplier** is applied to bids to control
the amount of spend. If a line item is hitting its target delivery
easily, the bid modifier will shade bids down, but only to the extent
that delivery does not suffer. If a line item is not meeting its target
delivery, adaptive pacing will shade bids less or not at all in order to
meet target spend.

The spend curves are tailored to a country's internet traffic patterns.
That is, instead of forcing line items to pace evenly throughout the
day, Xandr adjusts the spend so that more is
spent during the hours when there are more users online. If a line item
is targeting multiple countries, we will take a weighted average of the
countries based on availability.

Benefits of Adaptive Pacing

Adaptive pacing benefits line items in a few ways:

- It helps performance by spending less per impression.
- If you're getting paid on a fixed event basis, it helps line items
  retain more margin by spending less per impression.
- If you're a direct advertiser clients or you book on a Cost Plus
  basis, it helps advertiser dollars go farther. If the line item spends
  less per impression, those dollars can be used to buy more
  impressions.

Additionally, although adaptive pacing was developed to distribute
spend, it is also used as a signal in many of our different optimization
applications, such as
<a href="discovery.html" class="xref">Discovery</a>.



Related Topics

- <a href="optimization-guide-ali.html" class="xref">Optimization Guide -
  ALI</a>
- <a href="lifetime-pacing.html" class="xref"
  title="Lifetime pacing intelligently distributes a budget over the lifespan of a line item&#39;s flight.">Lifetime
  Pacing</a>
- <a href="discovery.html" class="xref">Discovery</a>
- <a href="valuation.html" class="xref">Valuation</a>






