---
Title : Create a Click Tracker
Description : Click trackers are used to track user clicks on creatives served by
off-platform (non-Xandr) ad servers.
---


# Create a Click Tracker



Click trackers are used to track user clicks on creatives served by
off-platform (non-Xandr) ad servers.

This document describes how to create and export a click tracker for use
with creatives served by an external ad server. Most ad servers allow
you to attach a "piggyback pixel" to a creative when you upload it. The
click tracker is meant to be uploaded as a piggyback pixel so that when
that creative is clicked, the click tracker will load as well and let
Xandr know that a click took place. You can
report on these clicks using the <a
href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-api/page/clicktrackers-feed.html"
class="xref" target="_blank">Clicktrackers Feed</a>.

Step 1. Create a click tracker

Navigate to the Click Trackers
screen
(Advertisers
\>  Click Trackers) and click
the Create Click Tracker button.

The **Create new Click Tracker** dialog will appear. In the
Click Tracker Details section, enter
the name of the click tracker. You can click
Advanced Options if you'd like to
assign your own custom **Code** and **Landing Page URL** to this click
tracker.

Step 2. Associate with a line item (required)

Click trackers are associated with line items. In the
Line Item Association section, click
Edit to choose the line item you'd
like to associate this click tracker with. You can also search for a
line item by name.



Important: Once a line item is
associated with a click tracker, you can report on the clicks coming
through that tracker at the line item level. You can separate impression
and click trackers by grouping by **Impression Type** in
<a href="network-reporting.html" class="xref">Network Reporting</a>.



Step 3. Associate with a publisher (required)

Under **Publisher Settings**, click
Edit and choose the publisher you'd
like to associate this click tracker with.

Step 4. Associate with a placement (optional)

You can optionally associate your click tracker with a placement. This
allows you to do performance reporting on the clicks coming through this
placement, for example using the
<a href="publisher-analytics.html" class="xref">Publisher Analytics</a>.

Step 5. Associate with a payment rule (optional)

Because you are required to associate your click tracker with a
publisher, you can optionally associate it with a payment rule as well.
For more information about payment rules, see
<a href="create-payment-rules.html" class="xref">Create Payment
Rules</a>.

Step 6. Export the click tracker

Finally, export the click tracker by clicking the checkbox to its left,
and selecting
More Actions
 \>  Export Tags from
the menu to the right of the Create Click
Tracker button.

The **Export Trackers** dialog will appear. Under **Basic Options**, you
can choose to export a JavaScript tag or a secure pixel.

Under **Delivery Options**, you can choose to generate the tags now, or
have them sent to you in an email.

The Advanced Options section presents
several different macros that you can use to populate your click
tracker. For more information about these macros, see
<a href="creative-macros.html" class="xref"
title="You can insert creative macros into your creative third-party tags, impression trackers, landing page URLs, and third-party pixels for reporting and optimization purposes.">Creative
Macros</a>.

Step 7. Add macro parameters (optional)

The exported click tracker will look something like the following (this
tracker includes the macros `CACHEBUSTER`, `ANCOST` and `REDIRECT_URL`
from the Advanced Options section of
the export dialog shown above).

``` pre
<!-- Click Tracker - CLIK TRAX -->
<a href="http://ib.adnxs.com/clktrb?id=21378&cachebuster=[CACHEBUSTER]&ancost=[ANCOST]&redir=[REDIRECT_URL]">YOUR TEXT HERE</a>
<!-- End of Click Tracker -->
```

The table below lists the parameters you can add to the click tracker
and their definitions.

<table class="table">
<thead class="thead">
<tr class="header row">
<th id="ID-00005a2e__entry__1" class="entry">Parameter</th>
<th id="ID-00005a2e__entry__2" class="entry">Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody class="tbody">
<tr class="odd row">
<td class="entry" headers="ID-00005a2e__entry__1"><pre
class="pre codeblock"><code>cachebuster</code></pre></td>
<td class="entry" headers="ID-00005a2e__entry__2">Cachebusters ensure
that the user's browser does not cache the URL. It should be dynamically
generated by the ad server from which the click originates.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even row">
<td class="entry" headers="ID-00005a2e__entry__1"><pre
class="pre codeblock"><code>ancost</code></pre></td>
<td class="entry" headers="ID-00005a2e__entry__2">Passes <span
class="ph">Xandr the media cost. This should be populated with
what you paid for a click in the original system.

Note: This will override any payment
rules.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd row">
<td class="entry" headers="ID-00005a2e__entry__1"><pre
class="pre codeblock"><code>redir</code></pre></td>
<td class="entry" headers="ID-00005a2e__entry__2">The URL you'd like the
creative to redirect to, which must be non-encoded and fully functional.
This will supersede any redirect value entered into <span
class="ph">Monetize.

Note: This parameter must be placed at
the end of the query string. If it's anywhere else in the query string,
the redirect will not be successful.
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Related Topics



- <a
  href="https://docs.xandr.com/bundle/xandr-api/page/clicktrackers-feed.html"
  class="xref" target="_blank">Clicktrackers Feed</a>






